Austin Free Skool Bylaws
===

Written and Edited by Caroline DeBruhl <cdebruhl@gmail.com> and Gatlin Johnson
<rokenrol@gmail.com>

0. What is this?

This repository holds the bylaws for [Austin Free Skool][1], a non-profit
organization which promotes educational events by and for the Austin community.
As of now we are completing the paperwork for the State of Texas and these
bylaws are tailored to those laws.

In the interest not only of transparency and archival, but also of encouraging
anyone to participate in shaping our organization (or to simply spot problems!)
we are putting our bylaws on a public git repository. We hope these bylaws are
of use or interest!

1. License

See LICENSE.txt.

2. Aren't bylaws and hierarchy antithetical to anarchist free skools?

Bylaws no, hierarchy yes. If you read carefully, these bylaws delineate very
specific and limited responsibilities to the board of directors, who are also
simply officers in the organization.

As a cooperatively run organization we believe in voluntary associations free
of coercion and oppression. Pragmatically, the state of Texas requires some
kind of managing body and the IRS requires a board of directors for 501(c)(3)
status.

Thus, given that we need these positions and rules in the first place, we have
set out to de-claw the authority normally given to a board of directors. They
are essentially the meeting chair, the minutes taker, and the holder of the
Golden Shoebox containing our capital.

3. Why be a tax-exempt non-profit? Why not just ... do your thing?

We want to be able to accept donations, seek grants, and manage our collective
property responsibly. Even without state coercion we would be uncomfortable
working to appropriate resources for teachers and educational events without
agreeing on some ground rules to ensure future solvency.

If Free Skool isn't able to protect itself from fraud or incompetence then it
will not be able to exist to serve its purpose. These bylaws would exist in
some form or fashion regardless of statute toward that end.


4. Where can I find out more?

[Go to our website!][1] Or, send an email to <austinfreeskool@gmail.com>.

[1]: http://austinfreeskool.wordpress.com
